Okay, guys, so here we are now, welcome to the closed guard.
So now we're going to work here from the closed guard and we're going to see a few options here that I love from the closed guard.
So once again, guys, I want to make this claim here that closed guard, half guard, spider guard, butterfly guard are such a wide subject, right? There are like hundreds of options from the closed guard.
So what I'm trying to do here is pick my favorite ones, that are the ones that I see a lot of people saying that, oh, your game is great for the old guys because it's a very old fashioned type of game, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So I'm really trying to select the very best techniques that I used to use, and give them to you as a template, as a sequence, as a system that you can use.
And if that one fails, you use this B1, the C, D, E, F, G. So really like...
So, guys, let's imagine that we try to half guard, half guard was not the best option for us in this case, our opponent defended really well and we ended up going to the closed guard.
Okay, so now here, finally, he opened, and we're playing the closed guard.
Okay, so, guys, when you're here, one of my favorite shots always is the omoplata.
I really love omoplata, and the reason that I love omoplata, because it's one attack that's pretty much my both legs against one of his arms.
So, just think about that for a second.
My leg, one of my legs is supposed to be stronger than one of his arms, right? Legs are stronger than arms just by your human body.
And I use my both legs against one of his arms. So I think that's where the leverage of the omoplata comes from.
Okay, so, guys, the first one we're going to do, let's imagine that I recover my guard somehow and I found my opponent like this, he has his both hands on the ground.
And even if that doesn't happen, if I find him like this, I can always put one hand on his collar, the other hand underneath his arm, and bring him to me.
Okay, so, guys, once I did that, I'm going to bring my arm in, and I'm going to do palm up.
Okay, once I have palm up over here, I'm going to open my guard, and I'm going to bring my leg over his back, just like this.
Okay, guys, I'm going to be honest with you guys, this first omoplata that I'm going to show you, you need to be a little bit flexible.
Just like me, and I can even show you that I'm not flexible, like, I'm not very flexible like this, I'm not very flexible like this, but this one's not bad for me, like, I can bring my leg like this very easily.
Okay, so, that's one option that I love.
I would not show you that just because you have to be a little flexible, but if that position doesn't work for you, don't need to worry about it, just skip this one, go to the next one, and the next one is going to be one that for sure works for you.
Okay, so hand on his collar, hand underneath his arm, bring him to you.
And involve his arm, once I did that, I'm going to control his trap, control his arm underneath his triceps.
And I'm going to bring my arm palm up, now I'm going to pull my leg and I'm going to use my elbow versus his versus his face.
Just like this, he's trying to bring his head back and he can't, just because it's my elbow versus his face, that's why I don't want to go palm down, because it gives him too much room to bring his head in.
I always want to go palm down, because if he tries to bring his head down, it's really hard for him.
And I'm going to do this.
Once I did that,
```